Hello.
We uh we should be back live.
Got to love hard crashes, man.
I ran the sim and might instantly just
my whole whole machine just locked up.
It's bizarre.
Very bizarre.
Okay. Well, this does work, so that's
cool.
Sure,
the Twitch category is totally wrong
again. And there's just too much stuff.
Too much stuff that just screws up for
no reason.
There we go.
Well, we'll hope that that stays uh more
stable.
What can I do? I'm streaming on my
laptop, right?
Which I should order a new desktop to
California so I have one to stream
there.
Okay. So, multiply by RNG.
If we go to drone or drone race.
Yes, this is a knitting with 0.1f
randomization, right?
And so far with 0.1 randomization,
it actually just kind of works.
Can I like just crank this thing up a
ton? What happens with 50%?
Okay. So, it actually it misses.
It doesn't confirm that it's hit the
targets like with.5.
I'm kind of interested if we train with
this.
I'm going to try to train locally. If it
locks up my machine, we'll just do all
training uh remote.
What I do here?
Just the binding file, right?
Oh yeah, the config
chat's hopefully not broken as well.
Looks fine.
I did put my windows in the wrong order.
All right.
Okay. Error. Drone race.
Okay, we're training.
So the question is going to be whether
this achieves the same success rate.
Now,
hey Sam,
welcome back.
Hopefully we do not keep crashing.
I probably should just put this on the U
remote puffer box.
I think I'll do that next.
Okay. Interestingly, we're stuck at um
stuck at like 75ish.
And the new one
You sorted it anyways.
Cool.
So, this is like super heavily
randomized.
This is definitely better than the model
that we had trained before, even if it
doesn't have 100% success rate.
Yeah, like some of those are like you
can tell that didn't control well at
all.
Yeah. So I mean this is crazy
randomization like gravity can be 50%
higher or 50% lower for example.
Might have to rewe pipers. Might need a
bigger network. We might need to make it
I don't know if we should let it observe
the coefficients. Honestly,
I honestly like it'll probably do better
if we let it observe its coefficients,
but like you're not going to be able to
observe the coefficients correctly on
the real end. So, it's probably better
to not let it.
Yeah, you can see sometimes it's like
super agile and sometimes super
sluggish.
So, I mean, pretty much if this doesn't
work on a real drone, it just means like
we didn't randomize a variable that's
relevant or we didn't account for a
force at all. Like, what this
essentially prevents you from doing,
right? This prevents it from being like,
oh, the mass wasn't exactly the same or,
you know, like, oh, the the forces like
the moment of inertia is different.
Like, it doesn't really matter because
we just train on everything. Honestly,
point
like five is pretty aggressive. Like
this thing can barely fly. Say
if I just do 0.25, it might just work
out of the box
like
Let's see if it works with this.
cuz I think we'll just be able to
estimate everything to within 25%.
10 to 15%. Yeah. The one thing I do kind
of want to mess with. So, let's do this
first and then I I think we're going to
have to mess with DT, right?
like the delta time is going to change
per step.
How big is our DT right now?
That's too small, isn't it? If this is
in seconds,
it's 0.02.
Yeah. So, this controls way better.
like 93%.
And this should still have enough
randomization in it.
Yeah, you can see how screwy this drone
is controlling in here.
You can see it's like super screwy
controls, right?
Yeah, that's very different here. It's
like way smoother.
It's got like more inertia to it.
What happens if I make this like
if I make this 0.1? Does it break?
So this would be like 100 ms latency.
or not really latency
but 100 ms precision
which would be very bad control.
Yeah. So this doesn't do anything like
this. It wasn't trained to. Let's see if
it can actually train at 100 ms.
Oh, it's having a tough time.
No, it's it's actually picking up.
Huh.
number to hit is 93%.
Oh yeah, this is completely fine. So
yeah, pretty much scratch that guys.
Like any any control frequency you get
should kind of be okay.
Actually, this literally does better.
You technically make the reinforcement
learning problem easier
when you do shorter horizons. It's not
super surprising.
This doesn't look good though, right?
It's like kind of flipping all over the
place.
We originally had some DTS that it would
get good and then fall off a cliff.
Well, you can see here I have it flying
with a DT of 0.1.
It's flying very weirdly though.
What do you think is realistically the
most control lag that we would have to
deal with? Like 50 ms.
We should be able to get 20 Hz control,
right?
Yeah, let's do let's get like a 20 Hz
controller in here
and we'll see how this does
because like this is solving
but I don't know if it's stable
cuz it's kind of like spinning like
crazy.
I don't know. I mean, realistically, it
is it is actually possible that this
thing just learns to fly a a drone in
the craziest way imaginable, but it
still works, right?
It wouldn't be the first time RL does
that.
50 Hz could be reasonable, but we can
definitely solve it with 50 Hz.
Let me see if I can solve it with 20 and
get something that looks like decent.
Cuz if it solves at 20, then it'll solve
at 50.
If it doesn't look reasonable, we'll go
down to um
you know the other value.
What are you doing RL on?
Give me 7 seconds and you will say
during your undergrad, would you prefer
college
over branch? What what is branch in this
context?
What do you mean by branch?
Okay, we need to slow this down so we
can actually see if it's flying
reasonably.
Oops.
Cooking a Rocket League AI. It's a drone
not that far off.
branches like what do you mean prefer
college over branch though?
Like
in the US at least the way it works it
depends on the university. Some
universities you apply directly to a
specific major. Some universities you
just apply to the university and then
you pick your major like ideally by the
end of your freshman year you kind of
know what you're doing.
I don't think that this looks too bad.
Finn, what do you think? It's like
there are super fiddly settings
where it doesn't look like smooth like
this.
But that's like that's kind of a good
thing.
We always apply to do a specific degree
really.
That kind of sucks honestly.
So like at Stanford
you could you apply just to the school
you can pick your major and then there
are no enrollment caps.
At least in CS there were no enrollment
caps
and you could take whatever course you
want in whatever department as well.
Yeah, this is kind of good cuz you can
see that they're definitely smooth
problems in here.
Modules from NGE, but they're unusual
options.
Insufficient freedom.
Not enough bullets for eagle.
Rand F
R N DF.
Is there anything else we need to
randomize?
Like do you think we need to actually
randomize the physics calculations
themselves?
Not really right. like the physics
formulas.
I think that the physics are what the
physics are and if anything we should
model if we have a specific type of
noise to model we should model it
directly.
We'll see how this goes.
So this is now if there's a bit of
deviation
in the uh the amount of time that a step
actually takes which is very likely
right like the instructions are not
going to come in at a constant rate.
Yeah. See, this is taking a couple
points of accuracy off of it,
which is fine.
back shortly.
This looks fairly good to me.
Like this definitely has more realistic
and less realistic
portions of it.
Now, I would actually like it to be
I would actually kind of like to have
less aggressive
randomization in some areas and more
aggressive randomization in others.
Like, can we get this to fly big drones
and small drones for instance?
Like big drone, small drone.
So we have thrust coefficient.
Kilogram
me squared.
angular damping coefficient.
Linear drag coefficient.
So, I would like these I would basically
like to have this
I'd like to have a formula that can
produce any reasonable drum. Does that
make sense?
Screw it. last. Let's just stick it in
the garage.
Let's see if I can uh if I can get it to
do this
and I'll check the physics with salmon
fan afterwards.
work by Jeff.
And there course
Okay.
So you scale the mass with size cubed.
You scale arm length linearly with size.
Scale with mass times arm length
squared.
Okay, so this is what I was looking for.
Scale with mass
angular damping. Scale with inertia.
Perfect. This is exactly what I wanted.
You guys see the point here?
like we're going to randomize
everything, but we're going to randomize
it within somewhat realistic ranges. So,
we consider like all possible big
drones, all possible small drones.
And if we do this correctly, this will
be able to fly any drone
and just zero shot. Of course, we have
to get all the physics right and stuff,
but maybe we don't randomize gravity as
well. Who knows? We'll see on that.
I'm going to use a restroom real quick.
I will be
let's see how I mute this thing and I
will be right back in a second to get a
drink as well and then we'll implement
this
All right,
this is exactly what we needed.
Put this on the other screen. We'll
start implementing it.
Do we want to do it off of mass
size?
We would like to have a base parameter
which I guess would probably make sense
to have be size
and we'll have to like fit some
coefficients.
size
and float domain randomization.
So
we've got arm length.
Is there any other size just arm length?
rotors according to thrust.
This is going to be in drone lab. We'll
just have to read the physics
to move drone.
So you get the thrust.
Okay. So it is the arm length is
basically the radius here, right?
Yeah. The arm length is basically
the radius.
So, why don't we go try to fit our own
drone, I guess,
and we will scale it up from there,
maybe.
Air65 drone specs.
This thing weighs nothing. It's 17 g.
It's 65 mm
wheel basease.
What's the wheelbase size?
Does that make sense?
Drone wheel basease
quadcopter frame. It's a diagonal motor
to motor distance in millimeters.
Okay.
So, we'll just play
We'll just fit some stuff to this
anyways.
size cubed
times the RNG.
Oh yeah, and the RNG is
it should probably be per component now,
right?
Which will make it harder.
inertia scales. Hang on.
Mass scales with size
cubed.
So arm length should just be size over
two, right?
The IXS
this scales with
mass
times arm length squared.
Is that just a fifth power?
That would seem weird to me.
I don't want to have multiple sources of
randomness like this, do I?
No. I guess I kind of
kind of do.
We'll try it like this first.
Find base.
I
Okay. So this is the base inertia.
The hope here is that we'll be able to
like slim down the RNG requirements. So,
we won't have like crazy things that
can't fly, but we'll have like a lot of
different drones. Should be better. Like
a lot of different actually possible
drones.
Oh, it's actually base.
I don't need to divide by this, do I?
Let's get the rest of these done first.
So thrust coefficient should scale with
mass.
Oh, I see.
by this
time
this is parameters mass
base mass
it's the RNG
angular damping scales with inertia
Yeah.
Peace.
So angular damping
going to be this base.
All right.
and drag scale with size.
We can let gravity be.
We can let gravity be what it's going to
be for now.
That is exact
velocity.
We'll just we'll give it a one center
just cuz
it doesn't make a difference, I'm sure,
but we'll do it anyways.
Max velocity
and omega scale with size and mass.
They scale with the motor
the motor thrust as well, don't they?
inversely proportional to size. That's
not true, right?
The max RPM is determined by the motors.
So that's frock being stupid.
If anything, you'd want to have
speed should be directly proportional to
thrust. Yeah.
Wait, but what's why is there a max RPM
anyways?
Let's just go study the physics a little
bit here.
Okay. So, these are thrusts, right?
Motor thrusts,
drone K thrust.
Oh, you probably don't need this RPM
thing. I'm going to ask Finn and Sam if
you need a max RPM thing.
I think you can probably just model this
as thrust, right?
I believe you can.
Let's just do this.
And then likewise
is the maximum velocity also not modeled
by this.
Yeah. So the maximums should be modeled
perfectly by the physics
I believe.
assuming you have the drag
which is proportional to your velocity.
That's going to create a maximum, isn't
it?
That's going to create a maximum. Cool.
So, all I have to do is fix this uh this
total mess that I have here. And we
should be able to get a nice
a nicely scaled uh drone randomizer.
And we'll actually be able to visually
see this too once it's done that like
we'll be able to visually see that we
have larger drones, smaller drones.
So
we give it the size. Size is going to be
divi a factor of two
of mass scale.
Okay. So this is going to be scales.
So mass scales
cubic with arm length.
Another
word to do this is um
m proportional
x cubed
And then we do
I
proportional to
MX squared.
So we just do float
scale.
So you do arm length squared.
from mass
scale.
My x is going to be
a scale. It's a scale. It's a scale.
I don't feel great about having um the
inertia moments being so screwy,
but it's fine.
We'll let them we'll uh we'll let Spit
Sam and Finn take a look at whether this
modeling makes any sense.
And then
The thrust really isn't proportional to
much of anything, right?
Do we just assume it's proportional to
mass?
I'm going to assume it's proportional to
mass and then I'll double check.
Okay,
angular damping.
angular damping skills. Inertia
It's
Okay. So, this is good.
And then just drag
drag scales differently.
Uh what is the drag formula? Is it
what's linear drag scale with?
Isn't it just
negative B
v? Yeah, it's just velocity. It doesn't
scale with mass. stupid.
Well, it depends how they've done it.
Let me just double check their formula.
No, they've done it correctly. They've
got B and V. Yeah, it's multiplied by
velocity.
So, it's just proportional to velocity.
Oh yeah. So this is
but this is just the coefficient.
So this doesn't get multiplied by
anything. The coefficient is just the
coefficient.
Isn't it proportional to wave? Is it not
proportional to size?
It should be proportional to the area,
right? Which is size squared.
How do you model that?
Do we say it's proportional to size
squared?
And then they have this clamping term
these uh these clamping terms
which we will see what happens without
these.
All right. So, all we have to do now, we
should have the proportionalities right.
We just have to make sure the constants
aren't crazy.
But they shouldn't be though.
That's sides.
We're going to do everything from
say 0.01 is that's a centimeter. We
don't need to do a centimeter drone.
5 cm drone.
Yeah, we'll do like 5 centimeters up to
a meter, I guess.
This is in meters, right?
Flame meter is not going to fit through
the range.
That's kind of awkward. We'll have to
figure that out as well.
Oh, I did this twice by mistake.
max RPM.
Okay. Yeah, this is at nan which is
really cool.
Headphones ain't working so I can't hear
you. Can you reply in the chat?
Yes.
Okay. So, we just have to figure out
basically where we've named some things
and it will be
fine.
Let's go to drone lab.
Oops.
Okay. So, this is where the drone is
apparently.
Uh, it's hard to see, but that is a
quadcopter. It's like a big quadcopter.
Cool.
We have negative N already.
And this is on line 404.
Oops.
Which is
tensity.
I see the max RPM
+ 1 *.5
We're just going to do like this, I
guess.
Let me go see what that is at the door.
All right.
back to work.
So,
stream is not dead, right? We're good.
Yeah, we're good. There's an electricity
blip when he rings the doorbell.
Okay, we still have names on 404
which is intensity.
Yeah, that shouldn't be able to be nan.
Why are you using rock 3 over Gemini,
GBT or Claude?
Because all the labs just leaprog each
other like every few months anyways.
There's really not a huge point to just
switching back and forth between the
models. Like for what I like the stuff
with the stuff I'm doing, they're all
equally bad. If I wanted to use a better
model, for instance, and have it take
longer, I could literally switch to Gro
4 since, to my point, the labs leap frog
each other every few months. And at
least, as far as they claim, now Grock 4
is apparently the best.
Gemini CLI. I don't really want any of
the models touching any of my code at
all. Honestly,
the only thing I use that touches any of
the code, if you've kind of noticed, is
I have this autocomplete like this. This
is like mostly single line
autocompletes. It's Super Maven. And I
really like this one because it's just
it's a dumb model that basically syntax
fills, but it's really really fast,
right? Like it's instantaneous.
I don't like copy pasting everything.
Well, I'm not really copy pasting that
much as you can see.
Like honestly, if I had to choose to
keep one like Super Maven or the bigger
models, right? And if I could only use
one, it would just be Super Maven for
the typing buff. It's more important
than anything else.
I mean, arguably the other models like
for looking up documentation are nice,
but
it depends what I'm working on.
Okay. So here we have we're at the break
point
density is 0.5 Five.
Okay, so we get nams into this thing now
with the new formula somehow.
Oh, it's because of this duh right here.
Uh oh, I see. So,
okay, it does make sense to use RPM then
I guess
I see I So, I'm wrong here. It actually
does make sense to use
max RPM
because it's like quadratic and
apparently that's the thing you're
setting is the RPM directly,
not the torqus.
So we'll restore this
Let's
say something.
Uh, if the last person here in the chat
is not a bot, please type potato.
I'm getting bot vibes from the first
message.
Do we just make max RPM scale with like
um
like square root of size or something?
No.
Do we just make it scale to size?
Well, let's just guess something for
now.
We'll do size square.
All right.
So, this gives us RPM.
And we're still getting
we're still getting undefined behavior.
Okay, this is a nan
because RPM is nan
because the actions is a nan.
How' nan get into actions?
Something blew up.
It's
okay. We do get ns.
It's probably like max velocity going
infinite or something, right?
Let's just put max velocity back on for
now.
We'll just do um
we'll just do like this for now. Yeah.
And we'll just like keep it. Let's say
we'll just like keep it for stability.
Okay. So, they're crazy drones in this
space and then they're like reasonable
drones in this space. Yeah.
We should also make the rings.
Change the rings a little bit.
What?
Why does this take void?
I didn't even know you could do that.
That's weird.
We have to do a few small things I think
with this.
Do like this.
the drone up top
ring
two times.
Okay, so it's going to get to double the
drone arm length
and then this is going to be ring radius
and then this is going to be ring
radius.
This is not working.
Let me get rid of this bot real quick.
obvious bot is obvious.
Hey Arin, how's it going?
We're doing uh some drone stuff at the
moment.
Clearly had some bugs, but what we're
doing is we're training all sorts of
different sizes and weights and stuff.
Visual
arm length.
Little tricky.
I mean, there's several things we could
have messed up here, right?
Easiest thing I can do at this point
would be
just size.
So, we'll just do
2F
So, this should give me a non-randomized
drone.
Yeah. So, this is reasonable.
Um, this
ring is completely a weird size.
Let's do this.
Yes, this arm length is not remotely
correct. It's rendering the drone the
wrong scale basically.
So, the box is 10 m by 10 m at the
moment. I think that's like a reasonable
initial size for this
Actually, I don't know if the fast
drones or the small drones are uh the
small drones or the the large drones are
faster.
I guess when Finn and Sam are back,
we'll ask them. Love the work you're
doing on drones. sort of listening to
your thesis and I'm trying to understand
the neural net. Not forgotten about Ken
and RL discussion. Just busy finding a
job. Yeah, it's rough.
I mean, this is really like low-level
material stuff is pretty close to the
top of the list for things I really want
to do.
It's a bit harder.
Like I think that the most likely thing
that's going to happen so drones are
considered low fidelity control because
there really not that many degrees of
freedom. Uh I think that what's likely
going to happen with puffer is we're
going to find like financially we're
going to find a big contract in either
logistics or low like low fidelity
control because this is what we're
really good at doing now. And uh the
hope is that we can eventually do
like material sim, but that doesn't mean
we can't spend any time like looking
into what's feasible in material sim
now, right? And I'd really like to do
that cuz if there is something that's
actually super feasible, we can just do
it. If it's the type of thing that we
need to scale up to, then at least we'd
like to know now like the type of things
that we will need to scale for and build
around it.
The neural nets are really simple around
like the neural net architectures are
not that complicated that we use.
It's mostly about the environment
and the data and then just making
everything really fast.
It's like the biggest the biggest thing
with RL.
What if we do this?
Is the drone just smaller now?
Oh, yeah. The drone's tiny now. Yeah.
definitely hit you definitely update you
on the material sim two weeks at most
I mean we definitely want to do stuff in
that space here let's put it this way as
well right so if you find something that
we can simulate
uh that will actually like do something
useful and basically any materials
there's chem space
Uh, and there's actually like, you know,
contract opportunities that come out of
that. We will bring you in on that. So,
this is pretty much the way that it
works with all the open- source stuff,
right? Is that like everything's kind of
out in the open for the most part, but
like if you have knowledge of another
area that creates opportunities for us
to throw our tech on a new area, then
we're absolutely interested in bringing
people in on that. It's just that we do
it via contracts instead of via via
hiring because it's a lot more
guaranteed for everyone around that way.
Where the heck is the body?
Okay, there's our grown back. It's just
tiny.
Let me show you the Discord channel.
Discuss papers.
Let's find this version.
Yeah, that's fine. You can do that.
Should
be good to hear.
It's just that the drone is tiny. Yeah.
If the drone is this big,
what do we make? How big do we make the
hoop?
Is that a big enough hoop?
Yeah, I think that this is good.
And it's still zippy. It's just like
it's just being rendered at the correct
uh the correct scale now. Oh, and the
rings are like hard.
Okay, let's do the randomizations now.
What happens if I do 0.5?
Ah, so we can see that basically
immediately from this, right? The
scaling formulas are wrong because all I
did was make the drone bigger and now it
doesn't control right. So, we got to
figure out what I did wrong with that
Okay. So if I make it scale here with um
with X.
This is slightly better, right?
and I should be able to train something
on this.
There you go. Let me go join that.
Is this a new DM or something? Where did
you send this to me?
Do you put it in puffer or something?
Where'd you send it?
this trains.
Oops.
It's pretty zippy, but it trains, right?
Sent on puffer previously.
Did you receive the link to the channel?
No. Did you DM it to me?
Wait,
I don't see any new message requests.
Like, where did you stick the link?
just stick it on the p like stick the
invite link on the the Discord or
something or DM it to me on Discord if
you want
cuz if you're putting it in the chat
like the chat's not going to post links.
YouTube doesn't like links.
What what is this detaching after fork?
What?
Okay, something weird happened.
Okay. So, this breaks
loops infinitely is kind of funny. It's
probably just not
Not able to find a spot for the ring.
Oh yeah, cuz the rings are going to be
huge, right?
1 meter drone.
You realize like I have open DMs, right?
Cool.
Joined.
Oh, you made like a full Discord for
this thing.
Uh, your Discord is like default no
permissions on everything by default.
So, I joined it, but I can't see
anything.
ridiculous.